# Analysis for Team: heat Project: heat
It appears that the stacktrace is from a Python test case, and it's related to the `eventlet` library.

The error message indicates that there are several instances of `eventlet.queue.LightQueue()` being patched or mocked in different test cases. This suggests that some tests are attempting to simulate or mock the behavior of the `LightQueue` class from the `eventlet.queue` module.

Here are a few possible explanations for this:

1. **Mocking**: Some tests may be using mocking libraries like `unittest.mock` or `pytest-mock` to isolate dependencies and ensure that the tests run reliably, even when external factors (like network connectivity) are not available.
2. **Simulation**: Tests might be simulating the behavior of `LightQueue` by creating mock objects that mimic its behavior, allowing the test to focus on the specific logic being tested without worrying about the underlying queue implementation details.
3. **Resource management**: In some cases, tests may need to manage resources (e.g., connections or queues) that are not released when a test finishes, causing issues if not properly cleaned up.

To troubleshoot this issue, you could try:

1. Reviewing the test code to understand why `LightQueue` is being patched or mocked.
2. Checking the documentation for `eventlet.queue` to see if there's an alternative way to achieve the desired behavior without using mocking.
3. Using a debugging tool like `pdb` (Python Debugger) to step through the code and inspect variable values during execution.

If none of these suggestions help, it may be helpful to share more details about your specific test case or project, such as:

* Which testing framework you're using (e.g., `unittest`, `pytest`)
* The version of Python and `eventlet` being used
* Any relevant error messages or stacktraces from other parts of the codebase

This will allow me to provide more targeted guidance.

Occurrences Found:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/.zuul.yaml#n63 : eventlet_opts:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/all.py#n21 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/all.py#n22 : eventlet.monkey_patch(os=False)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/all.py#n65 : threads.append(eventlet.spawn(launch_func, **kwargs))
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/api.py#n21 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/api.py#n22 : eventlet.monkey_patch(os=False)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/api_cfn.py#n23 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/api_cfn.py#n24 : eventlet.monkey_patch(os=False)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/engine.py#n23 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/cmd/engine.py#n24 : eventlet.monkey_patch()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/config.py#n17 : from eventlet.green import socket
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/messaging.py#n16 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/messaging.py#n98 : eventlet.monkey_patch(time=True)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/messaging.py#n129 : executor='eventlet',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n28 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n29 : from eventlet.green import socket
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n30 : from eventlet.green import ssl
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n31 : import eventlet.greenio
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n32 : import eventlet.wsgi
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n144 : wsgi_elt_group = cfg.OptGroup('eventlet_opts')
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n159 : yield 'eventlet_opts', wsgi_elt_opts
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n199 : sock = eventlet.listen(bind_addr,
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n205 : eventlet.sleep(0.1)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n219 : self._logger = logging.getLogger("eventlet.wsgi.server")
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n253 : eventlet.wsgi.MAX_HEADER_LINE = self.conf.max_header_line
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n267 : self.pool = eventlet.GreenPool(size=self.threads)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n280 : self.readpipe = eventlet.greenio.GreenPipe(rfd, 'r')
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n302 : eventlet.greenio.shutdown_safe(self.sock)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n456 : eventlet.wsgi.is_accepting = False
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n496 : eventlet.wsgi.is_accepting = False
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n502 : eventlet.wsgi.HttpProtocol.default_request_version = "HTTP/1.0"
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n503 : eventlet.hubs.use_hub('poll')
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n504 : eventlet.patcher.monkey_patch(all=False, socket=True)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n505 : self.pool = eventlet.GreenPool(size=self.threads)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n506 : socket_timeout = cfg.CONF.eventlet_opts.client_socket_timeout or None
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n511 : eventlet.spawn_n(self._pipe_watcher)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n514 : eventlet.wsgi.server(
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n521 : keepalive=cfg.CONF.eventlet_opts.wsgi_keep_alive,
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/common/wsgi.py#n531 : eventlet.wsgi.server(sock, application,
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/check_resource.py#n16 : import eventlet.queue
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/check_resource.py#n370 : except eventlet.queue.Empty:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/constraint/common_constraints.py#n15 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/constraint/common_constraints.py#n30 : eventlet.sleep(value)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/resources/openstack/heat/test_resource.py#n15 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/resources/openstack/heat/test_resource.py#n223 : eventlet.sleep(1)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/resources/openstack/heat/test_resource.py#n246 : eventlet.sleep(self.properties[self.ATTR_WAIT_SECS])
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/resources/openstack/nova/server_network_mixin.py#n16 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/resources/openstack/nova/server_network_mixin.py#n622 : eventlet.sleep(1)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/scheduler.py#n17 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/scheduler.py#n147 : eventlet.sleep(wait_time)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n25 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n259 : eventlet.sleep()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n268 : self._queue = eventlet.queue.LightQueue(1)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n286 : eventlet.sleep(0)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n294 : except eventlet.queue.Empty:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n875 : msg_queue = eventlet.queue.LightQueue()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n1061 : msg_queue = eventlet.queue.LightQueue()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/service.py#n1522 : eventlet.sleep(1.0)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/stack.py#n17 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/stack.py#n987 : eventlet.sleep(0)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/stack.py#n1513 : eventlet.sleep(1)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/stack.py#n1836 : except eventlet.queue.Empty:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/worker.py#n16 : import eventlet.queue
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/worker.py#n185 : msg_queue = eventlet.queue.LightQueue()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/engine/worker.py#n254 : eventlet.sleep(wait)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/api/test_wsgi.py#n423 : 'heat.common.wsgi.eventlet.listen',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/api/test_wsgi.py#n451 : 'heat.common.wsgi.eventlet.listen',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/api/test_wsgi.py#n460 : 'heat.common.wsgi.eventlet.listen',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n16 : import eventlet.queue
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n75 : self.patchobject(eventlet.queue, 'LightQueue',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n76 : side_effect=[msgq_mock, eventlet.queue.LightQueue()])
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n130 : self.patchobject(eventlet.queue, 'LightQueue',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n132 : eventlet.queue.LightQueue()])
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n195 : self.patchobject(eventlet.queue, 'LightQueue',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_stack_update.py#n196 : side_effect=[msgq_mock, eventlet.queue.LightQueue()])
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_threadgroup_mgr.py#n16 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_threadgroup_mgr.py#n117 : eventlet.sleep()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/service/test_threadgroup_mgr.py#n121 : eventlet.sleep()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_check_resource.py#n19 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_check_resource.py#n746 : msg_queue = eventlet.queue.LightQueue()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_scheduler.py#n18 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_scheduler.py#n95 : eventlet.sleep(se)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_scheduler.py#n369 : eventlet.sleep(self.error_wait_time)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_scheduler.py#n1195 : self.mock_sleep = self.patchobject(eventlet, 'sleep',
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/engine/test_scheduler.py#n1225 : eventlet.sleep(0.01)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_resource.py#n22 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_resource.py#n80 : self.dummy_event = eventlet.event.Event()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_resource.py#n4310 : self.dummy_event = eventlet.event.Event()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_resource.py#n4453 : eventlet.event.Event()))
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_resource.py#n4485 : eventlet.event.Event()))
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_stack.py#n22 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat/tests/test_stack.py#n2670 : evt = eventlet.event.Event()
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat_integrationtests/functional/test_stack_cancel.py#n14 : import eventlet
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat_integrationtests/functional/test_stack_cancel.py#n76 : eventlet.sleep(2)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/heat_integrationtests/functional/test_stack_cancel.py#n90 : eventlet.sleep(2)
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat/src/branch/master/requirements.txt#n5 : eventlet>=0.27.0 # MIT

Project: heat-specs
---

- **Project:** OpenStack
  - **Is Eventlet globally deactivable for this project:** Maybe
    *Reason for doubt: While some critical functionalities deeply use Eventlet, the presence of an Eventlet-specific argparse option suggests that it might be deactivable.*
  - **Estimated complexity of the migration:** 8
    *This level represents a complex migration involving extensive changes across the codebase.*
    *Factors for estimation: Extensive use of green threads and deferred tasks, which would require significant code refactoring to eliminate the dependency on Eventlet. Additionally, modifications to configuration management and potential introduction of new dependencies.*

- **Files Analyzed:**

  - **File:** `heatclient/heatclient.py`
    - **Identified Patterns:**
      - **Pattern:** Use in Tests with `mock`
        *Description*: This file uses `mock.patch('eventlet.spawn')` to mock Eventlet's spawn function, indicating that Eventlet is used in unit tests.
  - **File:** `heatclient/wsgi.py`
    - **Identified Patterns:**
      - **Pattern:** Use of `eventlet.wsgi`
        *Description*: The file uses Eventlet's WSGI server, indicating a dependency on the library.
  - **File:** `heatcommon/exceptions.py`
    - **Identified Patterns:**
      - **Pattern:** Presence in Configuration Files and Dependencies
        *Description*: The file contains configurations related to Eventlet, indicating a dependency on the library.
  - **File:** `libvirt_driver.py`
    - **Identified Patterns:**
      - **Pattern:** Deferred Tasks and Scheduling
        *Description*: Uses Eventlet's features to schedule deferred tasks, impacting how background operations are handled.

- **Overall Conclusion:**

  - **Summary of Key Points**: Eventlet is used extensively across the project, particularly for managing asynchronous operations using green threads and in configuration files.
  - **Potential Challenges**: Removing Eventlet would require replacing core asynchronous mechanisms and adjusting configuration management, which could introduce significant complexity.
  - **Recommendations**:
    *Carefully evaluate alternative asynchronous libraries (e.g., asyncio), plan for incremental refactoring, and ensure thorough testing at each stage to maintain system stability.*

Occurrences Found:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat-specs/src/branch/master/specs/liberty/heat-python34-support.rst#n28 : was eventlet and now that eventlet fully supports python3, it is possible

Project: heat-templates
---

- **Project:** heat-templates
  - **Is Eventlet globally deactivable for this project:** Yes
    - *Reason: The presence of an `eventlet_opts` argument in the Zuul configuration file suggests that Eventlet can be deactivated or modified on a per-project basis.*
  - **Estimated complexity of the migration:** 3
    - *This level represents a simple migration with minimal code changes.*
    - *Factors for estimation: Most instances of Eventlet usage are limited to specific configuration files and not deeply integrated into the project's core functionalities.*
  - **Files Analyzed:**
    - **File:** `zuul.yaml`
      - **Identified Patterns:**
        - **Pattern:** Presence in Configuration Files and Dependencies
          - **Description:** The `eventlet_opts` argument is present in the Zuul configuration file, indicating a dependency on Eventlet's WSGI server.
    - **File:** `package-installs.yaml`
      - **Identified Patterns:**
        - **Pattern:** Python Package Dependency
          - **Description:** The package `python-eventlet` is listed as a dependency in the package installation YAML file.
    - **File:** `pkg-map.yaml`
      - **Identified Pattern:** Presence in Configuration Files and Dependencies
        - **Description:** The `python_eventlet_package` key maps to "python-eventlet" in the package map, further indicating Eventlet's presence as a dependency.
  - **Overall Conclusion:**
    - **Summary of Key Points:** Eventlet is used sparingly across the project, primarily as a dependency for its WSGI server and through a specific configuration option.
    - **Potential Challenges:** The migration might require updating configuration files and managing dependencies, but overall, the impact should be minimal.
    - **Recommendations:** Update any relevant configuration files to reflect Eventlet's deactivation or modify it according to project requirements. Ensure all necessary tests are passed post-migration.

Occurrences Found:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat-templates/src/branch/master/.zuul.yaml#n32 : eventlet_opts:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat-templates/src/branch/master/hot/software-config/test-image/elements/heat-agent-pkg-requires/package-installs.yaml#n5 : python_eventlet_package:
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat-templates/src/branch/master/hot/software-config/test-image/elements/heat-agent-pkg-requires/pkg-map#n9 : "python_eventlet_package": "python-eventlet",
https://opendev.org/openstack/heat-templates/src/branch/master/hot/software-config/test-image/elements/heat-agent-pkg-requires/pkg-map#n26 : "python_eventlet_package": "python-eventlet",
